- Start Date: January 16, 2024
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)

# Summary

We should create a permalink host for links to objects (like meeting URLs)
that may need to change from time to time without us having to update
meetings invites and other copies of the URL that we may no longer have the
ability to update.

# Motivation

We realized recently that we need to update the monthly board meeting video
call URL to be a moderated Jitsi meeting. The last time we had to update a
board meeting URL (from Zoom to Jitsi), we spent a few months trying to get
a new URL in everyone's hands.

We'd like to update the URL one more time to a permanent home that we can
reasonably update from time to time without having to hunt down every place
the link may exist for an update.

# Detailed Proposal

We need a permanent URL host (i.e. link.ignitionnw.org) that moderately or
lightly technical Ignition organizers can use to permanently keep links
(in the form of HTTP redirects) to resources that need to stay accessible
over time.

The initial use case is links to video meeting details for our various
board and committee meetings. But there is no reason that we would have to
limit it to that.

We'll use fully static redirection technology generated by a static site
generator. For the foreseeable future, we'll host both site generation and
the statically generated site itself on github pages (which is a free
service available for any public repository, with additional free
capabilities (namely site hosting for private repositories) due to the non-
profit designation on our GitHub organization account).

Source code for site generation and the link directory lives at
https://github.com/ignitionnw/meet. (We aim to move this to ignitionnw/links
in the next week or so.)

Anyone who can edit the simple link directory file is capable of contributing
updates to the redirection list.

# Drawbacks

The usual downside to link redirects is that they're an additional point of
failure, and, in the case of a 3rd party redirection services like tinyurl,
bit.ly, or the like, large portions of the internet can be broken in the
event that the service stops operating or significantly changes how it works.

# Alternatives

We could use a public short link/redirection service, or we could continue to
use direct links to resources that we update by finding and updating all of the
people and places that need a new link.

# Prior Art



# Implementation Plan

No cost up front. Working implementation is already up and running.

No ongoing cost. Maintenance is only required in the case that we need to
update a link. The implementation is such that simply changing the list
of links should auto-update the deployed site.

If this ever fails, there are very few moving pieces. GitHub Actions
and GitHub Pages are commonly understood development technologies with
a very large subset of software developers familiar with them from their
day jobs.

# Accessibility



# Sustainability


# Sunset

